Add schedule (#23721)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/schedule.markdown

---
title: Schedule
description: Instructions on how use make weekly schedule in Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Automation
  - Helper
ha_release: 2022.9
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_codeowners:
  - '@home-assistant/core'
ha_domain: schedule
ha_integration_type: helper
---

The schedule integration provides a way to create a weekly schedule in
Home Assistant that can be used to trigger or make decisions in your
automations and scripts.

The preferred way to configure a schedule is via the user interface at
**Settings** -> **Devices & Services** -> **Helpers**. Click the add button
and then choose the **Schedule** option, or click the My button below.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

To be able to add **Helpers** via the user interface you should
have `default_config:` in your `configuration.yaml`, it should already
be there by default unless you removed it.

If you removed `default_config:` from your configuration,

> you must add it back or, alternatively, `schedules:` to your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you must add it back or, alternatively, `schedule:` to your
```
Should this be `schedule`?

Author: well spotted, thanks 👀

      - from: "17:00:00"
        to: "21:00:00"
    thursday:
      - from: "17:00:00"
        to: "21:00:00"
    friday:
      - from: "17:00:00"
        to: "23:00:00"
    saturday:
      - from: "07:00:00"
        to: "10:00:00"
      - from: "16:00:00"
        to: "23:00:00"
    sunday:
      - from: "07:00:00"
        to: "21:00:00"
```

{% configuration %}
schedule:
  description: Alias for the schedule. Multiple entries are allowed.
  required: true
  type: map
  keys:
    name:
      description: Friendly name of the schedule.
      required: true
      type: string
    icon:
      description: Icon to display in the frontend for this schedule.
      required: false
      type: icon
    "monday|tuesday|wednesday|thursday|friday|saturday|sunday":
      description: A schedule for each day of the week.
      required: false
      required: true
      type: list
      keys:
        from:
          description: The start time to mark the schedule as active/on.
          required: true
          type: time
        to:
          description: The end time to mark as inactive/off again.
          required: true
          type: time
{% endconfiguration %}

### Attributes

> A scheduleentity's state exports attributes that can be useful in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A schedule entity's state exports attributes that can be useful in
```
